 Amazon Kindle: Analyzing Customer Sentiments on E-book Purchases

<p align="justify">E-books were invented in the early 1970's by Michael S. Hart. Michael created his first electronic document by typing the United States Declaration of Independence into a computer in plain text. It wasn't until the late 1990s when E-books became mainstream where people were able to access documents through a primitive type of handheld device called the Personal Digital Assistant (PDA). Although at this time E-books weren't completely solidified yet as a primary source of information consumption until the Sony Corporation released an e-reading device in 2006 and Amazon.com released the Kindle in 2007, after which sales of e-books in the United States grew rapidly.</p>

<p align="justify">The growth of E-book use continued to spike upward especially after the release of the iPhone in 2007 and the very first Android phone in 2008. As the years went by smartphone and tablet technologies started to become more powerful and more affordable in the year 2010s this has seen a strong boost in sales of E-books especially from Amazon's kindle store where people no longer needed special devices to access E-book file systems.</p>

<p align="justify">Today E-books haven't completely replaced print materials just yet, as a matter of fact 72% of adults still prefer print books over E-books. Although it cannot be denied that the use of E-books will now be a common choice among select groups of people as years continue to pass and that E-Books and Print Books will continue to co-exist in the years to come.</p>

<p align="justify">A good number of people still seem to prefer text media over film or other forms of media. Interestingly, many highly-rated movies are based on books. The researchers have deemed it fit to dive deeper on the certain factors that make e-books salable and which e-books are given more attention based on sales and ratings. The common sentiments of the reviews were also explored to be able to gain more insights as to which are the common words that are attributed to excellently performing e-books or poorly rated ones. Additionally, topic modeling was implemented to customers' reviews, to show their benefits practically in detecting important topics or issues written by readers. The findings may give ideas to authors or publishers on how to improve their crafts or strategize better to increase sales and make readers happy.</p>

Open <a href="https://github.com/jazeljayme/Analyzing-Customer-Sentiments-on-Amazon-Purchases-through-Dimensionality-Reduction-Technique-part1/blob/master/Final%20Report.ipynb">Final Report.ipynb</a> to view the full report.
